CS2316 Fall 2015 Practice Quiz 09

Write a Python program to play the Game of Nim using an Object Oriented
GUI program.

What is Nim?

Nim is a game with many variations. A simple version would be like this.

There would be some objects: Sticks, coins, marbles, etc. We will call
them counters.

The game will start with some random number of counters between 20 and
30. These counters can be though to be in a pile.

The human player will play first and can take from 1 to 4 counters.

Then the computer will take a random number of counters between 1 and 4.

The player that takes the last counter LOSES!

So for your game make a GUI which is titled NIM.

It should have a Label which displays how many counters are in the pile.

Then there should be an Entry where the human can put a number between 1
and 4 and a button labelled "Play". The entry can can say something like
Enter a number between 1 and 4

The human player will type in how many counters he or she wished to take
and then press the Play button.

Use try and except to catch the error is the player types in something
that isn't an number. Just clear the entry back to the original text.

When the Play button is pressed a method should be called which will
check to make sire that player move is legal and if so it will subtract
the counters and check to see if the player has lost. If he or she has
then it can open up another window that says "You Lose"

If the game is not over then the computer player will pick a random
number between 1 and 4 and subtract that from the number of counters. If
the number of counters is negative or zero a window should open and say,
"You Win"

If the game is still on then the window will be updated to show the
correct situation and allow the human to make another move.

Since this is a practice quiz and it is just to help you prepare if your
game does what is above that is fine. You don't need to worry about
starting a next game.




